Tutorial Invitation: Interactive Data Comics

For a tutorial on the creation of Interactive Data Comics for data-driven storytelling we seek participants with an interest in data-driven storytelling and data visualization.

Data comics are a powerful means to communicating data with visualizations, inspired by the familiarity and graphical language of comics (http://datacomics.github.io). As part of an ongoing research project at the University of Edinburgh, we are now designing interactivity to enhance understandability of and engagement with data comics. Interactions, such as show and hide panels, jump between panels, or interactive sliders can be added to existing data comics through an easy scripting language (JSON syntax). You can find examples of interactive data comics on our website: https://interactivedatacomics.github.io.

Our tutorial will cover the different types of interactions and help you scripting your own interactive data comic. 

While the tutorial is open to anyone with an interest in data-driven storytelling and data visualization, most benefit will be to those with a story or even some existing visualizations that they would like to turn into an interactive comic.

The tutorial is split into several parts to accommodate for your personal schedule: 

Introduction and overview (Wed, March 10th 2021, 30min)

This live session gives an overview over data comics and interactive data comics. It demonstrates examples of which interactions we currently support as well as the scripting language. The short session will be recorded and can be found on our website and concludes with a brief Q&A session. 

Feel free to join our intro session to see if interactive data comics is for you. Please sign up here so we know how many people are interested. The recordings will be found on our website after the session.

Web tutorials

Our website will feature tutorial material, including short videos and a complete documentation of our interactions and the scripting language. You can start leaning the scripting language at your own pace. 

All you need to start using our scripting language is a set of comic panels in the format of Scalable Vector Graphics (svg). You can export SVGs from any vector graphic tool such as., Adobe Illustrator, Figma. One of our tutorials will explain the steps how you should export your SVGs, one for any panel in the comic.

Drop-in Q&A sessions

We help you with your personal data comic through set of Q&A sessions where you can bring your comic. If would like to provide us with written consent, we would like to record our conversation to collect anonymous evidence about how to improve our interactive comics and which parts of the scripting language need improvement. You can find our consent and information sheet here: ().

You can still participate without problems if you do not wish to give us written consent. In this case, we will not record or reuse any of your comments. 

Research focus group (March 26th, 1h)

For those interested in our research and wishing to provide more indepth feedback and discussion about interactive data comics, we provide a focus group in which we would like to discuss. Participating in this focus group session will require written consent for us to relate to your anonymous comments in any paper or presentation that follows from this tutorial.

This research has obtained clearance form the ethics board of the School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh. For any questions about our research and data collection through the sessions, please see our consent form here () or email us if that question is not answered through the form.

Who are we?

We are researchers from the University of Edinburgh, University of Toronto, Microsoft Research, and the University of Delft. Our background is in data visualization, storytelling, comics, and human-computer interaction. 

Zezhong Wang, University of Edinburgh
Benjamin Bach, University of Edinburgh
Fanny Chevalier, University of Toronto
Nathalie Henry Riche, Microsoft Research, 
Hugo Romat, Microsoft Corporation
Dave Murray-Rust, University of Delft

